AMBER HINDS: Hello, and welcome
to WordPress Accessibility Day.
My name is Amber Hinds.
I'm one of the lead organizers
of WordPress Accessibility Day,
and the CEO of a company
called Equalize Digital.
This session is a lightning round.
We’re going to have three short
talks that have all been prerecorded.
Our first talk will be
coming from Nick McClure
and is a Dissertation
Progress Report.
He will be talking about
accessible online content for blind
and visually impaired users.
Nick was born and raised in Georgia
and learned American Sign Language
in high school and has a
bachelor’s of arts in interpreting.
He has been working for about 11
years as a sign language interpreter.
I do believe that Nick...
OK... there is no... sorry.
There is no Q&A for this session...
live Q&A, but we do have
some of our speakers available,
and I totally lost that in the chat
and I'm sorry [chuckle]
you all.
Feel free to chat in the
conversations and Nick is here.
Thank you, Joe, behind the
scenes, for keeping me on track.
Nick is here and can answer any
questions in the ideas section
in the chat.
NICK MCCLURE: Hi, everyone.
My name is Nick McClure, and I'm
thrilled to be here with you today.
Thanks for having me.
I'm excited to share with
you just a little bit
about what I've been
learning about accessibility.
I'm a nationally certified
sign language interpreter
and doctoral student pursuing
a degree in instructional
and performance technology; though,
my career the last 15 years has been
as an interpreter and
interpreting professor,
my dissertation is focusing on
accessibility in a different domain.
My dissertation is about
how organizations can create
and share accessible content for
the blind and visually impaired.
My doctorate program has taught
me how to look at systems
and look for ways to
improve those systems
by identifying a problem,
analyzing the environmental
and organizational data, analyzing
the gap between the two sets
of data, and picking the best
solution based on the data
to help close the gap
and solve the problem.
This approach to systems
thinking and improvement avoids
throwing random solutions at a
problem hoping something will work.
The systems approach to
problem-solving looks at data
and lets the data
lead the decision.
I want to unpack that just a little
bit as it relates to my dissertation.
Identify that within my
organization content being posted
on our internal communication system
was not accessible to the blind
and visually impaired staff.
This includes pictures,
PDFs, links, gifs, and memes.
Some examples of this may be
in our lost and found channel
where someone may post a
picture in a comment that reads,
Hey, I found these sunglasses
outside in the parking lot.
Let me know if they’re yours.
The image that's attached
may not be accessible
if the content creator doesn't add
all text or describe the sunglasses
in the body of the text.
Another example I found is a
person created a PDF and posted it
with the following text, Come
join us for a fun time this Friday
at the Community Conference.
Refer to the PDF below
for more details.
Again, someone using a
screen reader may not be able
to access the PDF if it's not
made assessable and miss out
on the details of the conference.
Research about accessibility
shows that people who are blind
and visually impaired use
workarounds such as asking people
in a shared office space
what the images are.
I find this is the most common
fix within my organization,
but I believe that people should
have the most direct access
to information.
Another interesting topic
in the research suggested
that content should not just
be accessible, but usable
and that by knowing who
the content is created
for will help create the
right type of content.
I mentioned organizational and
environmental analyses earlier.
The organizational
analysis is looking into
what the organization stands
for as described in the policy,
mission, vision, values,
and strategic planning.
I combed through these
documents and was able
to identify that my organization
strives for accessibility for all.
The environmental analysis looks
at what is actually happening
within the organization,
and I found through surveys
and just chatting with people
that a lot of staff think
that making accessible content
is important, but they don't know
how to do it.
My job as a doctoral student
is to work with administration
to pick an intervention
or set of interventions
to help close the gap
between what's happening
and what the
organization strives for.
That's currently where
we are right now.
We are working together to figure
out what interventions will make sure
that all staff will know how
to create accessible content.
The cool thing is that once
people learn how to make
and create accessible content
in one system, they can transfer
that skill to other platforms
and systems, and more
and more people will be able to
access more and more content.
I'm on track to graduate next
summer, and while I'm looking forward
to that day, I’m enjoying the
process of learning as much as I can
about others, myself,
and accessibility.
I don't have all of the
answers, but I am passionate
about what I am doing
and look forward to see
how others are impacted.
Thanks for having me
today, and I look forward
to the other talks during
WordPress Accessibility Day 2022.